add release notes for v7.5.5 (#19724)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.5.5.md

Author: Preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-patch-preview-oreoxmts-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-7.5.5

---
title: TiDB 7.5.5 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.5.
---

# TiDB 7.5.5 Release Notes

Release date: December 31, 2024

TiDB version: 7.5.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes

> - Add a new system variable `tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed` to limit the maximum speed of the ingest phase when adding indexes [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Author: ```suggestion
- Add a new system variable [`tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_ddl_reorg_max_write_speed-new-in-v755) to limit the maximum speed of the ingest phase when adding indexes [#57156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57156) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Mitigate the issue that TiFlash might panic due to updating certificates after TLS is enabled [#8535](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8535) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Improve the garbage collection speed of outdated data in the background for tables with clustered indexes [#9529](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9529) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Optimize the retry strategy for TiFlash compute nodes in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture to handle exceptions when downloading files from Amazon S3 [#9695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9695) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Reduce unnecessary log printing during backup [#55902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55902) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Lower the log level for unrecognized MariaDB binlog events [#10204](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10204) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB could not resume Reorg DDL tasks from the previous progress after the DDL owner node is switched [#56506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56506) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB cannot resume Reorg DDL tasks from the previous progress after the DDL owner node is switched [#56506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56506) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - Fix the issue that the performance of querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.columns` degrades [#58184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58184) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the default timeout for querying the TiFlash system table is too short [#57816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57816) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the value of the `default_collation_for_utf8mb4` variable does not work for the `SET NAMES` statement [#56439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56439) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that TTL internal coroutine might panic when you manually delete a timer in the `mysql.tidb_timer` table [#57112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57112) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - Fix the issue that when using the `ALTER TABLE` statement to convert a normal table to a partitioned table, insufficient checking might result in incorrect data [#55721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55721) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when converting a normal table to a partitioned table using the `ALTER TABLE` statement, insufficient checks might result in incorrect data [#55721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55721) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - Fix the issue that when setting `tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value` and `tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value`, if the maximum value is null, an incorrect warning message occurs [#57889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57889) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the potential data race issue that might occur in TiDB's internal coroutine [#57798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57798) [#56053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56053) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Update `golang-jwt` and `jwt` to prevent potential security risks [#57135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57135) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue that concurrent writes might result in duplicate data when converting a clustered indexed table to a partitioned table using the `ALTER TABLE` statement [#57510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57510) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that concurrent writes might result in duplicate data when converting a table with clustered indexes to a partitioned table using the `ALTER TABLE` statement [#57510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57510) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复写冲突时 TTL 任务可能无法取消的问题 [#56422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56422) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复如果 CTE 包含 `ORDER BY`、`LIMIT`、`SELECT DISTINCT` 子句，并且被另外一个 CTE 的递归部分所引用时，可能被错误地 inline 导致执行报错的问题 [#56603](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56603) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `UPDATE` 语句更新 `ENUM` 类型的值时更新错误的问题 [#56832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复执行 `RECOVER TABLE BY JOB JOB_ID;` 可能导致 panic 的问题 [#55113](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55113) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当一个查询有索引合并 (Index Merge) 执行计划可用时，`read_from_storage` hint 可能不生效的问题 [#56217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56217) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `INDEX_HASH_JOIN` 在异常退出时可能卡住的问题 [#54055](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54055) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - 修复 DXF 相关系统表查询可能导致升级异常的问题 [#49263](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49263) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>     - 修复 DDL 内部事务因 "GC life time is shorter than transaction duration" 导致添加索引失败的问题 [#57043](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57043) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复当 exchange partition 遇到不合法的行时导致 info schema 全量加载的问题 [#56685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56685) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>     - 修复当 tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg 以及 new collation 开启时，未正确处理 collation 导致数据索引不一致的问题 [#58036](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58036) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
>     - 修复添加索引期间 plan cache 使用了错误的 schema 导致数据索引不一致的问题 [#56733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56733) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - 修复在升级期间执行 alter table tiflash replica 导致 TiDB 节点挂掉的问题 [#57863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57863) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 6 notes-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that querying system tables related to the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) might lead to upgrade exceptions [#49263](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49263) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Fix the issue that DDL internal transaction reports an error `GC life time is shorter than transaction duration` which leads to failure to add indexes [#57043](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57043) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that when executing `EXCHANGE PARTITION` and encountering invalid rows, InfoSchema is fully loaded with an error `failed to load schema diff` [#56685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56685) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Fix the issue that collation is not handled correctly when `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` and `new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap` are enabled, resulting in inconsistent data indexes [#58036](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58036) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
    - Fix the issue that data indexes are inconsistent because plan cache uses the wrong schema when adding indexes [#56733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56733) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that executing `ALTER TABLE TIFLASH REPLICA` during upgrade causes the TiDB node to crash [#57863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57863) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 6 notes-->
```

>     - 修复 INFORMATION_SCHEMA.columns 查询性能回退的问题 [#58184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58184) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the performance of querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.columns` degrades [#58184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58184) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复查询 TiFlash 系统表中默认超时时间过短的问题 [#57816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57816) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `default_collation_for_utf8mb4` 变量的值没有对 `SET NAMES` 语法生效的问题 [#56439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56439) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复手动删除 `mysql`.`timer` 表中的定时器时，TTL 内部协程可能 panic 的问题 [#57112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57112) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - 修复在一些情况下，使用 `ALTER TABLE` 语法将普通表转换为分区表时，因为检查不充分导致数据出现错误的问题 [#55721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55721) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - 修复 tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value/tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value 因为空的 max value 导致错误的 warning 信息 [#57889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57889) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复一些情况下，TiDB 内部协程会出现 Data Race 错误的问题 [#57798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57798) [#56053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56053) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - 更新 golang-jwt/jwt 来规避潜在的安全风险 [#57135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57135) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复在一些情况下，使用 `ALTER TABLE` 语法将聚簇索引表转换为分区表时，并发写入会造成重复数据的问题 [#57510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57510) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -  Fix the issue that under certain circumstances, when using the `ALTER TABLE` statement to convert a normal table to a partitioned table, insufficient checking results in incorrect data [#55721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55721) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that when setting `tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value` and `tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value`, the maximum value is null, which leads to an incorrect warning message [#57889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57889) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue of data race in TiDB internal concatenation in some cases [#57798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57798) [#56053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56053) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Update `golang-jwt` and `jwt` to avoid potential security risks [#57135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57135) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that concurrent writes result in duplicate data when converting a clustered indexed table to a partitioned table using the `ALTER TABLE` statement under certain circumstances [#57510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57510) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

>     - Fix the issue of data race in TiDB internal coroutine in some cases [#57798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57798) [#56053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56053) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential data race issue that might occur in TiDB's internal coroutine [#57798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57798) [#56053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56053) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 3 notes-->

    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 TiKV 处理 destroyed peer 时可能遇到的 panic 的问题 [#17840](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17840) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv))
    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 提升在 raft log 部署在独立磁盘情况下，磁盘出现故障时 TiKV 服务的 SLA [#17884](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17884) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - Fix the issue that the output of jprof is not correctly captured and processed when the `log-file` parameter is not specified [#17607](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17607) @[Hexilee](https://github.com/Hexilee)

>     -  Fix the issue that latency might increase when hibernated Regions are awake [#17101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17101) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that latency might increase when hibernated Regions are awake [#17101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17101) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

        - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份不能及时解决残留锁导致 Checkpoint 无法推进的问题 [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志可能打印加密信息的问题 [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复测试用例 `TestStoreRemoved` 不稳定的问题 [#52791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52791) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 升级 `k8s.io/api` 库的版本以修复潜在的安全漏洞 [#57790](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57790) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)
        - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复当集群存在大量表但实际数据量较小时，PITR 数据恢复任务可能出现 `Information schema is out of date` 报错的问题 [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 2 notes-->

>         - 修复遇到 truncate table 并且该表不具有有效索引时可能会发生错误的问题 [#11765](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11765) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
>         - 修复 simple protocol 消息中分区表的 tableID 没有被正确设置的问题 [#11846](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11846) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC might report an error when processing a truncate table DDL on a table without valid index [#11765](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11765) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that the `tableID` for partitioned tables is not correctly set in Simple Protocol messages [#11846](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11846) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC might report an error when processing a truncate table DDL on a table without valid index [#11765](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11765) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC might report an error when replicating a `TRUNCATE TABLE` DDL on a table without valid index [#11765](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11765) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - 修复物理导入后 auto id 可能会有大范围的跳变的问题 [#11768](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11768) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)"
        - 修复当同时配置 TLS 和 shard-mode 时，start-task 检查报错的问题 [#11842](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11842) @[sunxiaoguang](https://github.com/sunxiaoguang)
        - 修复当密码长度超过 19 个字符时无法连接 MySQL 8.0 的问题 [#11603](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11603) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 修复 TiDB Lightning 因 TiKV 发送的消息过大而接收失败的问题 [#56114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56114) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu)
        - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 修复使用物理导入模式导入数据后，`AUTO_INCREMENT` 值设置过大的问题 [#56814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56814) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>         - 修复更新 meta 表遇到 Lock wait timeout 未重试的问题 [#53042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53042) @[guoshouyan](https://github.com/guoshouyan)
>         - 修复高并发场景下 IO workers 会导致性能下降的问题 [#57413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57413) @[xuanyu66](https://github.com/xuanyu66)
>         - 修复导入大量 parquet 文件时会在导入开始前卡主很长时间的问题 [#56104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56104) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
>         - 修复 error summary 输出被截断的问题 [#58085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58085) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not automatically retry when encountering `Lock wait timeout` errors during metadata updates [#53042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53042) @[guoshouyan](https://github.com/guoshouyan)
        - Fix the issue that the performance degrades when importing data from a cloud storage in high-concurrency scenarios [#57413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57413) @[xuanyu66](https://github.com/xuanyu66)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning might get stuck for a long time during startup when importing a large number of Parquet files [#56104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56104) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
        - Fix the issue that the error report output is truncated when importing data using TiDB Lightning [#58085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58085) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    + TiDB Binlog

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

    + Dumpling <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 1 note-->

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

>         - 修复当 GCS 返回 503 错误时未正确 retry 的问题 [#56127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56127) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Dumpling fails to retry properly when receiving a 503 error from Google Cloud Storage (GCS) [#56127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56127) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning might get stuck for a long time during startup when importing a large number of Parquet files [#56104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56104) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning might get stuck for a long time during the preparation phase when importing a large number of Parquet files [#56104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56104) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
```

Reviewer 3: reason: The term “startup” might be confusing in this context because it commonly refers to the initial phase of launching or starting a program, service, or application.
